# CWC89
Creative Writing Challenge #89

The Rig advanced through the snowy terrain, its hydraulics getting increasingly covered in snow as the storm progressed. Much of it would be shaken by the movement and friction of its shiny white bioplastic-coated panels as its digitigrade legs flexed and its weighted shoulders rebalanced its body, but Tibia found herself having to take control of the machine from time to time, placing the mug of hot cocoa she'd been cupping in her hands as well as the blanket she'd covered herself with to the side, shifting into driver position inside the cockpit, and disabling its autonomous mode as she felt its rhythm slow down, the Rig unable to shake off the snow for much longer.

She was getting nervous. Even as her hands slid to the slick ergonomic controls of the Rig, as she felt herself embody the machine's limbs, as she eyed the dashboard indicators glowing green and within expected parameters, and as the smell of hot cocoa permeated the cockpit, the storm had gotten to her. As the rate at which this small ritual needed to be performed increased, it had turned from an excuse to take manual control of the Rig and have it do a little dance she could laugh at herself with, to a hole in her stomach. How many times had she had to do it now? Three? Five? Tibia was mad at herself for the stray thought. Rigs were made to last, malfunctions were extremely uncommon as use of complex technology was highly regulated, and machines from the old world like these were only repurposed and cleared for use under specific circumstances; this time of the year was the only time many people would come into contact with a Rig, or any kind of complex machine, in their lives.

Maybe the memories of her own encounter with a machine such as this had been the reason she'd been so eager to sign up to the PhysDelivery corps once the opportunity had presented itself. Her previous -and first- labor assignment as a horticultural technician had seemed a good, safe choice: she wouldn't have to move away from her family and acquaintances (though many were departing to assignments of their own), she'd meet plenty of new people and she really truly loved plants. It was one of the most respected labor posts system-wide and first timer labor applicants would often find it as one of their options once they were done with their education cycle. She'd loved it at first, but it had gotten complicated: she'd found out interacting with people could be exhausting; customers but specially her coworkers, who hadn't taken well to her (specially Ember, who - she didn't want to think about them), and she rarely had time to herself. So when her first cycle at the post had finished, Tibia decided to try something new. She impulsively left her labor preferences form empty, hoping for fate (or chance) to show her a way out of this newfound rut, and once she was presented with an open position as a Physical Delivery Conductor among her options, she took it as a sign and chose it despite her family's protests.

It'd been 6 months since then and Tibia had learned plenty. She'd memorized technical manuals, gone through Rig training (which she was proud to have passed with flying colors), and learnt that Physical Deliveries weren't only about carrying letters and gifts to friends and family from their loved ones who couldn't make the trip themselves, but also about preserving important cultural and religious practices that required the passing of physical objects, from sacred relics to handmade charms, which just couldn't be replaced through digital means. Some of Tibia's happiest memories were of receiving toys and letters from friends and relatives from the hands of a Rig Conductor at year's end, easily their busiest season, their white shiny Rig standing tall unlike anything she'd ever seen, and although she'd felt guilty of said memories as she heard and read people's criticisms of the service as a waste of resources in her youth, now she knew those views often came from those unaware of how precious and important its cargo could be to the right person or whole communities.

She'd completed the same route she was on now three months prior, as part of her training. Her destination, Syzygy, was a scientific settlement with a small residential hub that didn't require multiple Rigs for each delivery, but she'd come along with an experienced conductor and two other apprentices to accumulate experience. It'd been easy, even fun; they'd spent the three day journey joking around and singing karaoke through their wired intercoms, catching up on audioserials they'd prepared for the journey, and getting acquainted with their Rigs' rhythms as they made their way through the then-significantly greener terrain. Outside communication was always an option; the over-the-air commu-net blanketed the small planet with ease, but most of the route included protected areas with communication restrictions in place, as its use could disrupt certain fauna and flora behaviors, and any transmissions within it were strictly meant only for emergencies, meaning extra paperwork for someone back at HQ. She'd considered it a blessing in disguise, another sign she was exactly where she wanted to be.

Tibia had woken up early last week to sign up for the year end delivery shift to Syzygy; she'd been looking forward to taking the place of the conductor in her memory, handing toys to gleeful children at the village, sent from friends and family they only saw on their commu-net pads. Now a full-fledged Rig conductor, she'd have to make the trip alone, but that hadn't given her much pause as she'd barely had to take the controls on her last journey anyway, save for when their instructor took some time to explain some quirk or another about the machine's workings. She'd put her knowledge to use, become a local celebrity among kids for a day, and prove to herself those days feeling stuck and rejected were behind her.

Now, however, with the hole in her stomach growing larger by the minute as the Rig's operation became a constant concern, a bug of regret had began to worm itself within her, and it kept asking what she was doing in a repurposed machine from the old world in the middle of nowhere, playing a hero from her memories. She kept playing back the decisions that had led her to this moment, searching for when she'd made the wrong move. The weather report hadn't predicted any adverse conditions this week, though the region was known for its sudden snowfalls. Would her superiors have let her come had they known of the incoming storm? They didn't raise any objections when she signed up for the job, but had they made a mistake? Were they overconfident? Or did they sneer behind her back at a new conductor too full of herself, thinking of this as some rite of passage? Where her coworkers laughing now, expecting her to break the communication restrictions at any moment? She tried to brush the thoughts aside, she knew her mind was conflating her experience at the farm with the present; everyone she'd met so far seemed well intentioned. She reminded herself to breath; surely she'd look back on this experience and laugh (she could feel the legs's rhythm wane again), just another Rig trip of many she'd go on to complete this cycle (hadn't she *just* shaken the snow off? She hadn't even taken the mug back into her hands), she imagined herself again first handing the toys to children, and then telling the story to the others back at HQ (the storm was so bad now she could barely see ahead, a blur of white manifesting in the Rig's screen), but the visions became harder to hold onto, like trying to track dandelion seeds scattered to the wind.

Tibia's head began to feel light, and her vision began to blur as if the storm on her screen was leaking into the Rig. The smell of cocoa suddenly felt nauseating, her breaths getting increasingly uneven and hollow. She scrambled to steady herself inside the cockpit, hitting her shoulder in the process. This felt like a betrayal, the machine she'd come to trust as an extension of herself now felt constrictive and rejecting, as if in revolt.

She gripped the controls with as much strength as she could muster, her legs tense as if her seat could fall from under her at any moment, and began the override sequence again, desperate to wrestle control of the Rig's movement from itself and the weather. She knew she was spiraling, but thought the feeling of embodying the huge machine again would bring her reassurance. As soon as her arms were fitted to the commands and control released to her though, she knew something was wrong; the nimbleness with which she'd been able to maneuver it earlier today wasn't there, and she wasn't sure how much of this sluggishness came from her or the Rig finally buckling under the snow. She tried again, directing the Rig's legs in a practiced manner, expecting the machine to match her movements and convince her that what she was feeling was her nerves after all, but this time it clearly wasn't able to pick up the pace. With a mix of leftover panic and frustration, she yanked the machine forward, as if pulling on an invisible leash from ahead, willing it forcefully into submission. The Rig's left leg gave out, sinking into the snow. Momentum threw Tibia forward, as the gyroscopic cockpit became unable to counteract the sudden movement, hitting her head against one of the panels ahead.

---

Tibia came to to a beeping sound and an intermittent red tint. There was a cluster of indicator alarms going off to her left, probably signaling the leg's malfunction and other associated errors. She took a moment to take stock of herself and calm down; the hit had knocked her out but it had also normalized her breathing and she decided she'd avoid inflicting any more damage to the Rig (or herself) by reacting impulsively. The panel she'd hit looked ok and no trace of it remained other than some lingering pain on the left side of her forehead. She glanced at the diagnostics panel and saw only a few minutes had passed since the alarm had been triggered. The cocoa had been spilled on the bottom of the cockpit, but she decided she'd leave this minor tragedy for later. She grabbed the controls and attempted to go through basic checks, deliberately directing every articulated component as she'd been trained to do; other than the left leg having given out it seemed like the Rig worked fine.

After tinkering with the controls some more, checking the diagnostics log and going through the basic troubleshooting manual in her mind, Tibia came to the conclusion she was dreading. She'd have to break the communication restriction and contact HQ for assistance. This was an emergency without a doubt, and she'd be in the clear in regards to the commu-net use directives, but she couldn't help but recall those thoughts from earlier in the day - her supervisors and coworkers having expected her to call all along, sneering at a conductor too full of herself, playing the ace pilot like in one of her favorite old world audioserials. Had they known about the storm but refused to tell her? Maybe she could make them feel guilty if she played up having been knocked out... either way this would be another botched post; she saw herself leaving her form blank again come the next evaluation cycle, rolling the dice once more... she tapped on the communications panel and initiated the call.

\- "*Tibia? Thank the Convergence! Have you arrived at Syzygy? I've been worried sick about you, the weather map's a mess the whole way there!*"

This was Aitana, one of the apprentices that'd come with her on this same routemonths prior. That she had been the one to pick up recomforted her a litte, and brought back memories of the camaraderie they'd shared during the trip and their onboarding. Alongside this warmth came some tears, but she was able to hold these back and re-steady her voice; she was glad this was an audio-only channel.

\- "Aitana! The Rig's stuck. The left leg gave out. I tried to yank it out of the snow. I hit myself and just came to. I-"

Despite her efforts the words came flooding out in a flurry of short phrases. Aitana interrupted her.

\- "*Wait, you hit yourself? Are you ok? There should be a medkit underneath the-*"
\- "Yes, I know. I'm fine. The Rig is not, though, I'm transferring its diagnostics to you."

She tapped some buttons on the diagnostics panel. Hopefully she'd know what was wrong or be able to run the data through the diagnostics cluster at HQ, which would be much better at identifying the issue. She wondered if she'd be trapped here for another couple of days waiting for someone to come get her.

---

Minutes later, Tibia was suiting up to go out into the snow. Aitana had insisted they could send someone, maybe even get permission to use a Windborne to shuttle her out of there and recover the Rig later, but Tibia felt responsability for the machine and the cargo she was carrying; she wanted to have at least one completed trip of her own. Hearing this, Aitana had given up on her protests soon after and got to work, minutes later having come up with a plan together that felt sufficiently safe. Tibia stepped out, her suit shielding her from the weather, and after some digging reached the faulty section of the Rig's leg. The snow buildup had messed with one of the leg's displacement pumps, making it give out when excessive force had been applied. She opened the panel using her standard issue tool, and was relieved to see the components carefully laid out and labeled. She couldn't believe this had once been a machine designed for obsolecence. With some smart tinkering directed by Aitana the indicator lights on the leg lighted up, signaling the hydraulics were operational again.

A few hours later, the Rig moved steadily through the snow. The storm seemed to have eased off, and Tibia was asleep under the blanket, which had luckily been spared from the cocoa spill. Yet some more hours later, she'd wake to the year end celebration lights and decorated lamps from Syzygy station in the distance, the researchers' families having come together for their annual year end physical deliveries, a momentous event specially for the younger ones. As the Rig continued to approach, the traditional songs and smells of the season flooded her senses, and she thought maybe she wouldn't be leaving her next labor form empty after all.